README.md, before:

# LUNOS Heat Recovery Ventilation for Home Assistant

***NOT YET IMPLEMENTED***

Provides control of [LUNOS Heat Recovery Ventilation fans](https://foursevenfive.com/blog/lunos-faq/) (e2/eGO) using pairs of on/off smart switches. Per the design of the LUNOS low-voltage fan controller, a pair of switches (W1/W2) are used to turn on/off the fans and set the speed settings by setting the switches to specific combinations. See the LUNOS installation details for more information on [how the LUNOS wall switches are installed](https://youtu.be/wQxiYQebs10?t=418).

For a clean LUNOS installation, assigning a [Lutron Caséta Pico Fan Speed Controller](http://www.lutron.com/TechnicalDocumentLibrary/Caseta_Fan_Control_Sell_Sheet.pdf) (PD-FSQN-WH-R) to a LUNOS fan within Home Assistant allows extremely slick and simple control of a LUNOS fan in a single gang outlet box in an occupied space. The larger W1 and W2 control switches can then be "hidden" in a utility room or closet.

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=WREP29UDAMB6G)

## Installation

Visit the Home Assistant community if you need [help with installation and configuration of LUNOS Fan Control]().

### Step 1: Install Custom Components

Easiest installation is by setting up [Home Assistant Community Store (HACS)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs), and then adding the "Integration" repository: rsnodgrass/hass-lunos.

However you can also manually copy all the files in [lunos/](https://github.com/rsnodgrass/hass-lunos/custom_components/lunos) directory to `/config/custom_components/lunos` on your Home Assistant installation.

### Step 2: Configure Fans

Example configuration:

```yaml
lunos:
  - name: "Bedroom Ventilation"
    switch_w1: switch.lunos_bedrooms_w1
    switch_w2 switch.lunos_bedrooms_w2
  - name: "Basement Ventilation"
    entity: fan.lunos_basement_ventilation
    switch_w1: switch.lunos_basement_w1
    switch_w2 switch.lunos_basement_w2
  - name: "Bathroom Fan"
    default_speed: high
    switch_w1: switch.lunos_bathroom_w1
    switch_w2: switch.lunos_bathroom_w2
```

### Step 3: Add Lovelace Card

The following is a simple Lovelace card using the [fan-control-entity-row](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/lovelace-fan-control-entity-row/102952):

```yaml
- entity: fan.lunos_bathroom
  type: custom:fan-control-entity-row
```

### Automation Examples

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Turn on LUNOS ventilation fans on when we get home"
    trigger:
      - platform: state
        entity_id: group.people
        to: "home"
    action:
      - service: fan.turn_on
        entity_id: "fan.lunos"
        data:
          speed: "high"
```

## Supported Hardware

* [LUNOS eGO](https://foursevenfive.com/blog/introducing-the-lunos-ego/)

## See Also

* [LUNOS Ventilation FAQ](https://foursevenfive.com/blog/lunos-faq/)
* [Intro to Lunos Heat Recovery Ventilation](https://foursevenfive.com/blog/introduction-to-lunos-e-heat-recovery-ventilation/)
* [LUNOS](https://www.lunos.de/en/) (official site)
* [475 High Performance Supply](https://foursevenfive.com/lunos-e/) (USA distributor)
* [LUNOS Operating Manual](https://foursevenfive.com/content/product/ventilation/lunos_e2/operating_manual_lunos_e2.pdf)

## Feature Requests

* service turn_on / turn_off
* service set_speed (low, medium, high)
* example of poor air quality and auto-turning up the fan (e.g. Foobot or Airwave)
* configurable type (sets CFM for each)
* NOTE: flipping W2 (right) on/off within 3 seconds activates Summer ventilation mode
* WARNING: flipping W1 within 3 seconds clears the filter warning light
* add 3 second delay between state changes

## Not Supported

* enabling the summer/night ventilation mode (e2)
* eGO exhaust only modes
* e2 four-flow rate mode (non-US models)
* LUNOS type RA 15-60 radial duct fan

Commit message:

added notes about the smart switch must be low voltage) "

README.md, after:

# LUNOS Heat Recovery Ventilation for Home Assistant

***NOT YET IMPLEMENTED***

Provides control of [LUNOS Heat Recovery Ventilation fans](https://foursevenfive.com/blog/lunos-faq/) (e2/eGO) using pairs of LOW-VOLTAGE on/off smart switches. Per the design of the LUNOS low-voltage fan controller, a pair of switches (W1/W2) are used to turn on/off the fans and set the speed settings by setting the switches to specific combinations. See the LUNOS installation details for more information on [how the LUNOS wall switches are installed](https://youtu.be/wQxiYQebs10?t=418).

NOTE: The pair of smart switches CANNOT be 120V switches as they are basic switches which create continuity for LUNOS Universal Controller (12V?). Other options, such as a Intermatic PE635 allows 120V controller to switch separate low-voltage circuits (notably circuit 5 (and circuits 3 or 4 if wired as low-voltage).

For a clean LUNOS installation, assigning a [Lutron Caséta Pico Fan Speed Controller](http://www.lutron.com/TechnicalDocumentLibrary/Caseta_Fan_Control_Sell_Sheet.pdf) (PD-FSQN-WH-R) to a LUNOS fan within Home Assistant allows extremely slick and simple control of a LUNOS fan in a single gang outlet box in an occupied space. The larger W1 and W2 control switches can then be "hidden" in a utility room or closet.

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=WREP29UDAMB6G)

## Installation

Visit the Home Assistant community if you need [help with installation and configuration of LUNOS Fan Control]().

### Step 1: Install Custom Components

Easiest installation is by setting up [Home Assistant Community Store (HACS)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs), and then adding the "Integration" repository: rsnodgrass/hass-lunos.

However you can also manually copy all the files in [lunos/](https://github.com/rsnodgrass/hass-lunos/custom_components/lunos) directory to `/config/custom_components/lunos` on your Home Assistant installation.

### Step 2: Configure Fans

Example configuration:

```yaml
lunos:
  - name: "Bedroom Ventilation"
    switch_w1: switch.lunos_bedrooms_w1
    switch_w2 switch.lunos_bedrooms_w2
  - name: "Basement Ventilation"
    entity: fan.lunos_basement_ventilation
    switch_w1: switch.lunos_basement_w1
    switch_w2 switch.lunos_basement_w2
  - name: "Bathroom Fan"
    default_speed: high
    switch_w1: switch.lunos_bathroom_w1
    switch_w2: switch.lunos_bathroom_w2
```

### Step 3: Add Lovelace Card

The following is a simple Lovelace card using the [fan-control-entity-row](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/lovelace-fan-control-entity-row/102952):

```yaml
- entity: fan.lunos_bathroom
  type: custom:fan-control-entity-row
```

### Automation Examples

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Turn on LUNOS ventilation fans on when we get home"
    trigger:
      - platform: state
        entity_id: group.people
        to: "home"
    action:
      - service: fan.turn_on
        entity_id: "fan.lunos"
        data:
          speed: "high"
```

## Supported Hardware

* [LUNOS eGO](https://foursevenfive.com/blog/introducing-the-lunos-ego/)

## See Also

* [LUNOS Ventilation FAQ](https://foursevenfive.com/blog/lunos-faq/)
* [Intro to Lunos Heat Recovery Ventilation](https://foursevenfive.com/blog/introduction-to-lunos-e-heat-recovery-ventilation/)
* [LUNOS](https://www.lunos.de/en/) (official site)
* [475 High Performance Supply](https://foursevenfive.com/lunos-e/) (USA distributor)
* [LUNOS Operating Manual](https://foursevenfive.com/content/product/ventilation/lunos_e2/operating_manual_lunos_e2.pdf)

## Feature Requests

* service turn_on / turn_off
* service set_speed (low, medium, high)
* example of poor air quality and auto-turning up the fan (e.g. Foobot or Airwave)
* configurable type (sets CFM for each)
* NOTE: flipping W2 (right) on/off within 3 seconds activates Summer ventilation mode
* WARNING: flipping W1 within 3 seconds clears the filter warning light
* add 3 second delay between state changes

## Not Supported

* enabling the summer/night ventilation mode (e2)
* eGO exhaust only modes
* e2 four-flow rate mode (non-US models)
* LUNOS type RA 15-60 radial duct fan
